# Setup Jenkins Server

The DevOps team at xFusionCorp Industries is initiating the setup of CI/CD pipelines and has decided to utilize Jenkins as their server. Execute the task according to the provided requirements:

1. Install jenkins on jenkins server using yum utility only, and start its service. You might face timeout issue while starting the Jenkins service, please refer this link for help.

2. Jenkin's admin user name should be `theadmin`, password should be `Adm!n321`, full name should be `Siva` and email should be `siva@jenkins.stratos.xfusioncorp.com`.

Note:

1. For this task, access the Jenkins server by SSH using the `root` user and password `S3curePass` from the jump host.

2. After Jenkins server installation, click the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI and follow on-screen instructions to create an admin user.

## Steps

1. Login into server

2. Install `wget` and Download `jenkins repo`

    ```sh
    sudo yum install -y wget
    sudo wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/jenkins.repo \
        https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.repo
    sudo rpm --import https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key
    ```

3. Install JDK and Jenkins

    ```sh
    sudo yum upgrade
    # Add required dependencies for the jenkins package
    sudo yum install -y fontconfig java-21-openjdk
    sudo yum install -y jenkins
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    ```

4. Start Jenkins Service

    ```sh
    sudo systemctl enable jenkins
    sudo systemctl start jenkins
    ```

5. Login Into Jenkins Using initalPassword

    ```sh
    cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
    ```

6. Select Suggested plugin to install and make sure email extension is installed. Otherwise you won't be able to add user's email. 

7. Create Admin User with given credential

8. `Save and Continue`

9. Jenkins URL: Set An URL or go with default one
10. SAVE and Finish.
